In the past couple of lectures we talked also about contracts.
So basically a contract is up BHP interface and you can verify that by for example clicking on the session
one with your out pressed.
You can see that this is peach beat interface.
So remember that contracts in light of all means defining an interface.
Now we all know that interface only contains method definitions not the actual implementations as as
you can see here.
And then you need an actual class that implements this interface and provides the real functionality.
So what that means is you can have multiple implementations multiple actual classes that implement the
same interface which means they provide the same functionality.
Of course they can provide some more or less functionality but never less than what's defined inside
the interface.
So all the methods of an interface have to be implemented.
That's why you can call it a contract because whatever this whatever the object implementing this interface
will provide additionally the minimum it has to provide is what is actually defined on an interface.
That's why it's called contract so if we will now create our own contract or own BHP interface that
will have one method definition the increment with this specific arguments and this specific return
type then this counter service can just be one of the implementations one of the possible implementations
and then we will tell Lavell that it should use this implementation or the other.
So now we have now we are not depending on an actual implementation of something we depend on a contract
that says what functionality has to be provided what functionality is needed.
So what that means is let's imagine that here we also depend on cash on session.
But you can come up with a different implementation of this counter you can store that inside the database.
So if you will create our contract and the interface and then in the user and post controller you will
expect a contract not a particular service implementation then you can make changes to how you implement
code.
Let's say there will be another implementation storing this data inside database and you wouldn't have
to change any code in all the other classes that depend on this particular functionality.
So that's a great thing about dependency injection and service containers.
So let's go ahead and create our own contract right now so inside that up folder we will create another
one called contracts of course.
It doesn't have to be this folder you can create contracts whenever you want.
We are just creating that for simplicity.
And now let's create another file and call it counter contract BHP.
Now also mind that this doesn't have to be called counter a contract.
I am using this name to be obvious and to differentiate that from the service.
So this would be an interface called counter contract
of course before this interface definition we need a namespace.
So this is up contracts now this contract will have only one method.
As I've said public function interface
and it doesn't contain implementation as all the interfaces do so now whenever you implement this contract
this interface in one of your services you have to make sure that the method declaration method header
is exactly the same on the class as it is on the interface.
So how to implement an interface.
It's simple just add implements to the class and specify counter contract.
Notice how Visual Studio code has added an import for me out magically.
Okay.
Now save the changes.
You don't have to change anything in here because the method is exactly the same as on the interface
and now inside the user controller.
We no longer depend on an actual service.
Actual concrete implementation.
Now we will depend on a contract.
So let's typing the dependency US counter contract add this you statement.
Remove the old one for the service
let's do the same on that post controllers so counter contract as a type of the only argument notice
the use statement and remove the old one for the service.
So actually this won't work out of the box if you will refresh a blog post.
You can see that target is not instantly able when while building it makes sense.
So Lavell doesn't know how to create well it can't creating an interface because they are they cannot
be instantiated and it also doesn't know what class did you actually mean by using this parameter.
So you have to tell the devil which actual implementation you are intending to use and we will do that
in app service provider.
Of course you can do that in any provider but well it's I think it's a good convention to keep this
in one file unless you have a lot of services then you can create another service provider.
Now to tell Lavell which class to use when an interface is requested on the dependency injection you
can also use BMD and what you will do now is you will specify the interface fully qualified class name.
So this will be up contracts counter contract as a first argument of being and then the actual class
that has to be instantiated in our case or the service name.
So we happen to have defined our counter service which is using the counter service fully qualified
class name using this constant so we can copy that and tell Lavell that if this interface is a request
that we have to use this implementation now save the changes and after refreshing.
It works because there is only one implementation and we told a lot of all that each should use this
one.
No I've said that using interfaces or contracts you can very easily change the implementation on which
those classes depend.
So now they depend on a contract and we can easily change what actually would be injected to those classes
without modifying either the user controller or post controller.
So this is a great thing for us not having to modify a lot of code when something changes in our application.
So let's see an example.
So currently we have only this counter class as a service.
So let's create another one and call it a dummy counter
so dummy counter BHP.
BHP.
Sorry.
BHP Tague namespace up services and let's define another class called dummy counter which implements
the counter contract and now from the counter contract we'll have to copy this method header and here
we actually need the implementation.
So well let's do something like Didi I'm a dummy counter not implemented
and we can return 0 Okay now to use this what we have to do is only switch the counter class as a binding
to this contract in light of all service container.
So let's try it out.
We can use dummy counter.
So that's the only change we've made.
Notice that we've only changed one line in the Observer's provider and this will now change how all
the other classes that depend on this one behave.
So this includes both controller and user controller.
Now suddenly we see this text that it's not implemented yet.
So of course this is not really a useful example.
I just wanted to show you how you can easily switch the implementation probably you will do something
like using a different database or maybe using some other logic or maybe even some different algorithms
some better algorithms.
So this allows you to easily prototype to test some things without modifying a lot of code in your projects.
Notice that we just changed one line and then we have changed totally the implementation of what happens
in our counters.
So I hope you understand and see how great a tool that is to use contracts in dependency injection and
then how powerful that is and how easy it is actually to use and understand.